UI Test Cases

[Home]

c1. App can be accessed
Steps: User goes to https://thinking-tester-contact-list.herokuapp.com/
Expected Result: Homepage opens and "Contact list app" title is displayed

c2. Page elements are displayed
Preconditions: User opens the app
Steps: Inspect the page
Expected Result: Elements are displayed: - Text paragraph - Log in form and submit button - sign up message and sign up button - footer

c3. Clicking sign up button opens Add User page
Preconditions: User opens the app
Steps: Click sign up button
Expected Result: Add User page opens and URL contains "/addUser"

c4. Cancel button redirects to the previous page
Preconditions: User is on add user page
Steps: Click cancel button
Expected Result: Previous page user was on opens

c5. User cand be added
Preconditions: User is on Add User page
Steps: Fill in all fields with valid data and click submit button
Expected Result: Contact List page opens and the contacts table is displayed - only table header without any rows

c6. User can log in
Preconditions: User opens the app
Steps: Input a valid email and password and click Submit button
Expected Result: Contact List page opens and URL contains "contactList"

[Contact List]

c7. Clicking "Add a New Contact" button opens Add contact page
Preconditions: User is logged in
Steps: Click "Add a New Contact" button
Expected Result: Add contact page opens and URL contains "/addContact"

c8. User can log out
Preconditions: User is logged in
Steps: Click logout button
Expected Result: User is redirected to the homepage

c9. "Return to Contact List" button redirects to Contact list page
Preconditions: User opens Contact Details page
Steps: Click "Return to Contact List" button
Expected Result: Contact List page opens

c10. [Add contact]Contact can be added
Preconditions: User is on Add Contact page
Steps: Fill in the First and Last name input fields and click Submit button
Expected Result: User is redirected to Contact List page and the Contacts table is populated with the correct data
